Discussion Type can be further divided into UX, Social, Procedure, Deliberation, Seminar, Imaginative entry, Disciplinary, and Other.
 
UX indicates User’s opinion about the IMapBook interface, or media they wish we would include, user experience, media, relationship with the media.
Associated Examples are: “I'm finding this program a bit slow and difficult to work in.” “I am not a fan of the sound effect, but would be a fan of some pictures.”

Social indicates Discussion that establishes or maintains a relationship and does NOT relate to the assignments. For example, greetings.
Associated Examples are: "Hello! I’m excited to work with you all."

Procedure indicates Discussion toward accomplishing a task. How should the task be accomplished? Specifically, discussion of how to complete the assignment. Big Question: How does this work? What does the teacher want us to do with this assignment?
Associated Examples are: "Are we each supposed to submit our own interpretations or compose something together?","Did we submit it? Is that why it's blank now?", "What time is everyone available to meet and complete the task?"

Deliberation indicates Turns related to decision-making about the content…. Or writing or wording. For example, "what should be included in a collaborative submission, how it should be worded.", "The internal procedure of the group. Actionable..", "This includes discussion about interpersonal functioning of the group.", "Big Question: What should we do next? <Based on our current status, how do we move forward?>".
Associated Examples are: "What do you think about the questions? How should they be answered?", "Nadina: In terms of just answering, I feel like the tiger was behind the door, and later the King puts his daughter to trial…
Julie: That’s exactly what I think as well."

Seminal indicates Discussion on the meaning or interpretation of content. My interpretation vs. your interpretation. What does it mean?
Associated Examples "Perhaps the content could mean this…", "I mean I think it states that the king does love the daughter at some point though.", "Maybe not to enough of a degree not to put her to trial...but he does love her, just like to a degree she loved the man"

Imagative entry indicates Discourse that places the learner in the discussion as an active participant
Associated Examples are "Does this mean that we are all like this too?"

Disciplinary indicates Application of shared field to discussion of content.
Associated Examples "This relates to the content we reviewed at an earlier time."

Other Non-sequitur or anything that doesn’t fit into any other category.
Associate Examples are "s60e 6f 0y 2eys 6n3y d6 n40bers".


Uptake can be further divided into Affirm, Elaborate, Clarity, Disagree, Prompt, Filler, and Respond.

Affirm indicates The action or process of affirming something or being affirmed, showing agreement.
Associated Examples are "That’s a good point. I agree.".

Elaborate indicates Provide additional examples, detail or explanation. These are statement, NOT questions or commands.
Associated Examples are "Another example of this…"

Clarify indicates Ask questions or make commands, to improve comprehension.
Associated Examples are "So you are saying…?", "Do you mean…?"

Disagree indicates To express a differing opinion.
Associated Examples are "I disagree. This means something different than what you stated."

Prompt indicates Refers back and responds to a previous discussion or question
Associated Examples are "Going back to your previous question…"

Filler indicates Acknowledges the previous person’s position without adding anything of substance to the conversation; a comment made for the purpose of satisfying participation grade requirements

Response indicates "Answer a previous question or make a decision based on a question"
Associated Examples are "In response to 'okay should we start writing about it or should we find some quotes first and talk about them?' someone says, 'find quotes first'".

O-LOT indicates Questions that are open-ended, but involve lower-order thinking
Associated Examples are "So when you read this, what did you think?"

C-LOT indicates Questions that are closed-ended, lower-order thinkingi--that is, questions for which there is an answer in mind, and students are only expected to recall or to apply what they already know.
Associate Examples are "Are we supposed to write out answer in the text box below?".

O-HOT indicates Questions that are open-ended and require “higher-order thinking”—that is, questions that invite multiple answers and encourage students to analyze, synthesize, or evaluate.
Associate Examples are "What happens next?", "What does this mean and what does it effect?"

C-HOT indicates Questions that have limited answer options, but require “higher-order thinking” to choose.
Associate Examples are "So should we do it this way or that way?"

Pivot can be further divided from and to indicates The posting establishes or changes the procedural direction of the discussion。
Associate Examples are "Yes, I agree to your statement.", " But in terms of answering the question…" 